Gunar Schirner (hschirne@uci.edu)
Yue Zhang (yuez@doc.ece.uci.edu)


Roundtrip Latency Measurements for different ORB implementations

This package implements the tests for RTZen and for TAO. A package with the 
same name exists in regular Zen, which implements the according test on 
regular Zen. 

This package uses the package perf.TimeStamp, which implements a native time stamp driver, for the tests of RTZen on RI and TAO. The TimeStamp driver was taken from Ed Pla, it uses unix commands to get an accurate (more granular than 1ms) time stamp. Since OVM doesn't support JNI so far, we use the System.nanoTime() to get the TimeStamp for the test of RTZen on OVM interpreter and j2c.

During the test each individual call is measured, this allows jitter calculations later on. 

1) Run the tests
Use the script run_tests for executing each part of the test and generating
the result files. The local tests can be run on any node.

To run a local measurement test for RTZen on Simulated RTSJ VM (We wrote some "fake" RTSJ interfaces):
 ./run_tests both 1 1

To run a local measurement test for RTZen on TimeSys RI:
 ./run_tests both 2 2 

To run a local measurement test for TAO:
 ./run_tests both 3 3 

To run a local measurement test for RTZen on OVM interpreter:
 ./run_tests both 4 4

To run a local measurement test for RTZen on OVM j2c:
 ./run_tests both 5 5

To run a test with regular Zen, change to the directory of the perf.jitter
package WITHIN regular Zen and execute:
 ./run_tests both 6 6 

Copy the result files of the regular Zen named timeRecords.1.*.txt back to 
the RTZen perf/jitter direcory for generating the graphs.

To run a local measurement test for JacORB on SUN jdk:
 ./run_tests both 7 7

The remote test execution is currently setup to run on node0.rtzen.pces.emulab.net and node1.rtzen.pces.emulab.net. It is required that ssh is installed. 
Furthermore you need to be able to login from node1 to node0 via ssh WITHOUT
entering a password (see "man ssh" for details). Plus you have to make
sure that the evironment correct automatically after that login (only for
execution, compilation is not required of course).
Start the test from node1, for that run the scripts as shown above but append
a 0 to the second argument. This shows that this particular implementation 
has to be executed remote (e.g. ./run_tests both 20 2).
Again the remote part will be executed on node0.rtzen.pces.emulab.net. 
Modify the script for a different hostname. 
NOTE: To be more accurate, the remote test can be originated from any node, 
just the remote node is hard coded in the script (but up to now we only have 
these two emulab nodes).


2) Generating Graphs
Generating the graphs uses octave and gnuplot. Perform the following command
to generate the graphs:

  octave <scriptName>


The following scripts are available

gen_tput.m  generates 4 graphs with for latency/throughput local/remote 
            comparing each implementation
get_summary.m  gives the raw statistical data for all tests. output into text 
	           file

gen_jitter.m  generates 6 graphs one for each implementation/location. 
              Showing the jitter over increasing size.

gen_local.m   compares the jitter for a fixed length over the different
              implementation for local calls. ATTENTION this one is 
              written for Matlab.

gen_remote.m  compares the jitter for a fixed length over the different
              implementation for remote calls. ATTENTION this one is 
              written for Matlab.
